## The Algo Project
The goal of this side-project is to exploit inefficiencies in the relatively new cryptocurrency trading markets. As a new market, there is a much smaller number of algorithmic trading firms involved, which translates into more opportunities for the little guy (us).
### How do we accomplish this?
Over the past year, the approach to the problem has changed in various ways. It began with a notice of trailing price moves between Kraken and GDAX, and the first framework was written to take advantage of this price inefficiency. It was bug riddled and broke every few hours, requiring constant attention. Then this inefficiency diasppeared, so a new avenue was required. Attention was moved from trailing prices to pair pricing vs the individual assets in the pair, much like arbitrage between pricing of ETFs and the underlying commodities. This was also not very pricise and large drawdowns happened enough to where the bot was not profitable. Recently, Kraken gave traders a month with zero fees and during this month many new strategies were discovered. However, once that month ended, fees ate up too much profit and none of the strategies continued to work.
These strategies are as follows:
- Forex v1: Frequently, the price of an asset in USD was a percentage point or more different from the price of the same asset in EUR. So theoretically, you could get that percentage as long as it lasted, but the problem was there was no way to go directly from USD to EUR or vice versa. So, using a list of all the liquid pairs on Kraken, the percent gain from doing a roundtrip through the most optimum currencies was calculated and taken. With fees however, these roundtrips were much less profitable, to the tune of .01% or less and did not appear frequently enough to justify the computing power.
_With low/no fees, this strategy is very viable_
- Liquidity v1: This bot checks for a wide spread in liquid pairs and closes that spread by a set percent by placing a slightly higher bid order and a slightly lower ask order. These orders tend to get filled if the price stays stable for the next 10 seconds or so, because everyone wants to sell and buy at better prices. This strategy results in trades executing every few minutes, and builds trade volume fast, which results in a better fee schedule.
_With very low fees and a better stoploss, this strategy will pull in ~1.5% per day. Certainly needs zero fees though._
Unfortunately, with the fees reinstated, these strategies are basically dead in the water. The only way to make them viable again would be to bring up the trade volume to the point where the fees get low enough, and that would certainly mean a bit of a loss, so unless confidence in the strategies is rock solid, likely not worth the risk of capital.

### Current Focus
As of now, the focus of this project is towards Machine Learning as a possible identifier of market moves or trading indicators. This is being built in the _Machine_Learning_ section of this repository. Data can be found in the _Data_ section for training the various machine learning programs, and it can easily accomodate new data downloaded form various places.  As of now, we have a framework in place for testing various ML algorithms for price move predictions. It supports Random Forest, Neural Net, Support Vector Gradient, and a few others included in the file. So far Random Forest seems to be the most accurate for hourly predictions
- RandomForest v1: Using the Random Forest algorithm (essentially a large collection of differently weighted trees), in testing we have been able to achieve 32.8% returns over a 3.2 month period with standard fees. (With 0 fees, this percentage grows to 56.3%). This however, is backtested data and should not be confidently relied on. The method of backtesting is statistically unbiased and the data is randomized to prevent overfitting, so we would be fairly confident in saying the actual percentage return would be close to the testing percentage (32.8%). The trading module for the Random Forest predictor is currently running, and only trades when its prediciton is 1.5 standard deviations away from the average prediction, meaning that it's reasonably confident that the predicted move will be close to the actual move. The program returns a prediction every hour, and either trades on or ignores the prediction based on its confidence. Over the next few months we will see how our predictions actually play out.
    - Highest priority addition to the code will be a retrain of the Random Forest every time it predicts, using its prediction and the actual move. This will let the model learn over time and become more adaptive to the current climate of volatility or non-volatility.
